---
layout: page
subheadline: "Will Pearce"
title: "Turn of the Century Exchange Rates"
date: 2017-04-20
categories:
  - curiosities
author: willpearce

---

The Egyptian Gazette is a typical daily newspaper that not only gives the news
that occurs around Egypt, but provides advertisements for local businesses in
addition to other stories about what is going on in the world. In this class,
we studied several different issues in great detail between the years 1905-
1906, to get a feel for what life was like in Egypt at the turn of the century.
There are many different important tables within the paper, which gives
information about a variety of topics, ranging from telegram transfer times, to
ferry passenger lists, to different stocks - all similar to what can be found
today in a modern newspaper. In this class, we conduct a microhistory analysis.
Microhistory is defined as an intensive historical investigation of an event,
community, or individual. This class and analysis project can easily be defined
as "Digital Microhistory", as we spend a lot of time searching and digging
through details to come up with an end result to a serial question that isn't
outright stated in the Egyptian Gazette.

The week that I was assigned to study and analyze was June 25 through June 30,
1906. A lot was happening at the time, including a massacre between townspeople
and a British police force commonly referred to in the paper as the 'Denishwai
Affair', and almost every issue that I read through and analyzed had some
mention of details of the case, trial, and brutal crime that occurred. While
most of the issues that were in my week only had six pages, about one-third of
them had eight pages - both the Wednesday and Saturday issues. These issues in
particular had more pages as they included more advertisements for local
businesses than the typical issue, along with more news stories and typically,
financial tables.

In my analysis specifically, I focused on a table that occurred in many, not
all, of the issues of the Egyptian Gazette called "To-day's Exchange Quotations."
This was essentially a table that showed the exchange rates between Egyptian
currency with several countries from Europe, including Switzerland and Germany,
in addition to several major European cities such as London, Paris, and Vienna.
My main goal of this analysis was to see if there was a difference between
exchange rates during different times of the year, or if any events such as the
Denishwai Affair affected these rates. It gives the impression that there were
many travelers from these countries included in the table. This table was most
likely useful to visitors of Egypt who need to convert their money from one
nation's currency to the next.

I started my analysis with an XPath Query,
//div[@xml:id="deg-el-tdeq01"]//table//row[2]//cell//measure , which yielded the
results of exhange rates for the "London Cheque". In order to find all results,
I had to repeat this query, but change the number of the row that the Oxygen XML
Editor was searching within amongst the many issues. There were a total of
twelve rows, so there were 12 individual Xpath queries that I had to conduct.
There were 176 total results from each Xpath Query. The easiest way for me to
record the values given to me as a result of the query was to copy the values of
exchange into a spreadsheet on excel. When analyzing the results of my query, I
saw that many of the values hadn't changed much at all over the span of two years,
from 1905-1906. This leaves me with an impression that the currency in Europe,
as well as Egypt, was pretty strong and stable at the turn of the 20th century.

In the table "To-day's Exchange Quotations", there are many different rows of
information. These included both banks's buying and selling rates for London
Cheque (3m. bank and house paper), Paris Cheque (3m. bank and house paper),
Switzerland 3m. bank paper, Germany Cheque (3m. bank paper), Italian Cheque,
Vienna and Trieste Cheque, and Constantinople cheque. The exchange rates differ
considerable from country to country, due to different value of each currency.
Based on my research and analysis, the stronger one currency is in comparison
to another, it takes less to purchase another currency, and vice versa. The two
most expensive currencies were the Germany Cheque and Switzerland Cheque, as they
both sold and could be purchased for about 475 Egyptian pounds. The most similar
to the Egyptian currency was that of the London Cheque, as the average buying
and selling price was 96 2/5, and 97 57/73 respectively. I also needed to discover
what exactly the difference was between "house paper" and "bank paper", as
some of the listed currencies above had these distinguished variations. I found
that "bank paper" is similar to what is nowadays called "commercial paper", which
is involved more in investments and credit. "House paper" most likely was just cash
or everyday spending money that the Egyptian people had at the time.

For the visualization part of this project, my original idea was to use the
Tableau program to create a map, and on the different cities or countries
whose currencies are included in the "To-day's Exchange Quotations" table I would
place a corresponding symbol, probably a dollar sign, on each of these cities.
The more value that country's currency held, the larger the dollar sign or other
symbol. I eventually decided to create a line graph,as I personally felt that
it would be the easiest way to decipher the information provided. Most financial
graphs presented today are in the form of a line graph, so it seemed fairly
logical. I made three different graphs, one for London Cheque, one for Paris
Cheque, and one for Vienna & Trieste Cheque. Each graph had their own color, to
make sure that it was easy to distinguish one graph from another. Within each
category of Cheque (London, Paris, and Vienna & Trieste), there was a graph
for both the buying and selling counterparts.

Once the graph rendered in the Tableau editing program, it was very clear to see
that most of the values of exchange quotations for the different currencies
remained relatively steady month after month over the years I studied.
Each issue that has been analyzed that contained one of these tables is included
in the final analysis. I included a bar on the graph for each currency that includes
the median of the data, along with the upper and lower quartiles. The lines
were almost completely straight, as the average from month to month remained
relatively at the same value. For example, for Paris Cheque Buying rates, the
lowest point of value was 386.167, while the highest was 388.563. There was only
a 2-point difference between the peak and the trough of the data over a span of
almost two full years. The median of Paris Cheque was 387.197.
On the other hand, in both London Cheque and Vienna & Trieste Cheque, there were
some fluctuations in the line on the graph, despite the majority of the line remaining
 a relatively flat line.

I was faced with some limitations, however, within my analysis. Some portions of
the "To-day's Exchange Quotations" chart had dashes (-) or double dashes (--) to
indicate that there were no recorded values for that particular currency on that particular day.
Another possible reason that my results showed dashes or double dashes in some
spots where numerical values should go is illegibility of the microfilm scan of
the Egyptian Gazette. If somebody performed a microfilm scan poorly, and then was
unable to utilize OCR with AABBY FineReader to scan the .jpeg image, then it is
likely that when the original analyst of a specific issue of the Egyptian Gazette
would not have been able to translate what the image said into XML text. I eventually
removed the outliers or null data in order to have the most accurate, precise data
featured in my data visualization.

All in all, I believe that my analysis is important to see how much purchasing power
different currencies had at the turn of the twentieth century. It shows how much
European influence that was present in Egypt during these years. This shows to me
that there were many travelers at this time, enough at least that a table of the
exchange rates of the currencies were included in the local paper. My main goal
was to see if there were any changes in value of currency based on time of year
or based on different events happening in the world around the time of the analysis,
but no correlation was found between either of those factors and the value of the
currencies. This doesn't mean that the analysis was a failure at all, of course;
conversely, it means that my hypothesis was incorrect and we learned something
different about the financial climate in Europe at the turn of the 20th century.
I really enjoyed conducting this analysis, and though it was a lot of work, I found
that in the end the work is very rewarding. It is very interesting to see that with the
technology available today, we can find out a lot about Egypt from over a
century ago.

I have attached both a .jpg and the actual Tableau Workbook file for each graph.
