---
layout: page
title: <!--- Giselle Chacon-analysis.md --->
author: Giselle Chacon
---
My serial question is where were murders most frequent in the Egyptian 
Gazette in the year 1905? And how many of these trials ended up in the
death sentence or in something else. This drew my attention after seeing an article
where there were three death sentences in only twenty days because of murders.
This got me thinking and left me with my question, where do murders occur most frequently and how
many end in the death sentence?

To start off my project, I did an Xpath query using the word "murders."
This gave me about 132 results. I then went through each one and read
the articles that popped up. I collected data of what crime was committed,
which were mostly murders but sometimes included attempted murder, murder
and robbery, threatened to murder, and double murder. I also collected
where these murders took place. Sometimes the article would say a city and
sometimes it would give the village of where the murder or victim was from
or it give the village in where it happened. And finally, I collected
what the conviction was just out of curiosity of how many murder trials ended
in the death sentence. Some of the results I got were just talking
about murder trials and were updates on when the trial would take place.
Other results I got were nothing that had to do with a crime but had
the word murder was used in the article somewhere. For example, "murderous"
was used an an adjective to describe a hotel. Most of the results gave me
what I was looking for and this way i could collect my data and make my visuals.

I decided to use the word "murders" for the Xpath query because that is
what I was looking into. I tried many different words such as "executions,"
"crime," and "death sentenced." When I put in those words in the Xpath
query, I got very little results or I did not get the results I was looking
for. When I typed in "murders," I found exactly what I was looking for.
I was specifically looking for articles on a murder that had occurred. In
these articles, I would look for what kind of murder or crime was committed
specifically, where, and what the conviction ended up being. For almost all
if the results that I received, it said where the crime had taken place. For
a few, it did not. The same thing happened for the convictions. In some articles,
it would not say what the conviction was so I assumed they were awaiting trial
unless otherwise stated.

I noticed that the place that had the most murders was Cairo. I think this
is because Cairo was a very big city and a lot of people were concentrated
there so it made for easier targets. And since there is more people, there
is more of a likelihood that more people are going to get murdered there.
I also noticed that most of the murders ended up in the death sentence.
The ones that did not end in a death sentences ended with hard labor for life
or they were awaiting trial or had just been arrested and not tried yet.

I also noticed that the people who committed the crimes did not have good
reason to murder someone (not that any reason is a good reason to take
someones life). Most of these murders aware out of hate or jealousy of their
victims. Sometimes the murders were accidents. For example, this man goes in
to kill his wife's lover but ends up murdering her brother. If this man was
not jealous, he would have not died for nothing. Another example of this is
when a man goes to murder another man and in his gun fire, he accidentally
shoots an innocent woman.

In order to show my data, I will make a pie chart showing the percentages of
how many people got the death sentence or another form of punishment. I will
also show where places that murdered occurred in on a map and see if there
are any patterns or relationships show. The visuals I will include are going
to be concerning Cairo and death. I will also find an image that depicts
the amount of murders as well.

As I was reading these articles on different murders that took place in the
Egyptian Gazette in 1905, I noticed that the main way people killed another
person is through the head. Some people shot their victims in the head with
a gun and others took a rock or some wort of tool and bashed their victims
head causing them to die. I also noticed when reading that many people when
going to their assigned destination to receive their punishment do not put up
a fight nor do they say anything. They just go willingly. Some people even
confessed to their crimes on the spot without denying anything. This struck me
as interesting because in today's world, most people would not confess a murder
they committed because they know it will mean life in prison. This makes me
wonder if life in prison is worse than the death sentence. It could also be
the times and how it was back then compared to how it is now.

I can see how micro history can teach one a lot about different types of things
but one weakness I found that there is a plethora of results one has to go
through in order to find what they are looking for. It took me a couple hours
to thoroughly read every article that I gathered in my results. In order to
research sufficiently and thoroughly, it takes a lot of time which some
people do not have. A strength that can be seen is that this is an easy way
to find information and to learn about the Egyptian Gazette in 1905 and
other topics. Another weakness about this is, sometimes you cannot read what
the newspaper says even when you fix it up. Sometimes it would look good on
one side but not good on the other. This results in the process being time
consuming and tedious.
