 Although not everyone takes part in it, everyone has been around it and known
                    someone who indulges in the forbidden fruit that is Hashish. Hashish is an
                    extracted concentrate from the marijuana plant leaves, that is much more potent
                    and has been used for thousands of years, but popularity has risen in the past
                    500 years. Egyptians were the first to really use this drug and its importation
                    and exportation has stemmed from the African continent for most of its history.
                    Hashish shares a commonality with its parent, marijuana, in that the smuggling
                    of it into countries where it is illegal will prove to be a very highly
                    profitable business if you choose to take the serious risks that are involved.
                    In my assigned the issues of June 26-July 1, I had 2 occurrences of hashish
                    being found trying to be smuggled around Egypt, on boats and camels. When I saw
                    the happening of this I realized a serial question could be posed from that, so
                    I am going to see how many hashish seizures there were in the year 1905 by doing
                    a serial analysis of the data that we have been provided by ourselves and
                    classmates.

                There are many occurrences of hashish popping up in 1905 in the Egyptian Gazette.
                    Approximately 25 times in the year in some way hashish has been mentioned,
                    whether in a medical way, or in a post about police seizing it and arresting
                    others. Mostly it has been that hashish has been found or uncovered in a
                    smuggling operation that has gone wrong. There is no shortage of ingenuity when
                    it comes to smugglers, though for they have come up with many interesting ways
                    of concealing the contraband from the authorities, and just like today, they
                    will stop at nothing to make money and get their product to the foreign and very
                    profitable countries that lie outside of their borders. Smuggling of marijuana
                    related products is a serious offense, especially back in 1905, it was not taken
                    lightly and smugglers were punished harshly by the authorities for the serious
                    infringement on law they had committed. Hashish is very possibly the most
                    documented smuggled item in the year; it would not be surprising to learn that
                    it was the most widely smuggled item overall of the year, as Egypt is a large
                    hashish producing and using country.

                The first documented seizure is reported in the February 1st edition on page 3
                    saying there had been a hashish seizure by the Egyptian Coast Guard, in the
                    desert. This was an interesting seizure and report for a few reasons, starting
                    with the Coast Guard in the desert. The Coast Guard in the desert is weird but
                    in Egypt much of the land was actually patrolled by their coast guard, this
                    being their equivalent to the police these days. These men were said to be
                    riding camels and had it hidden in the lining of their saddles completely
                    undetectable to the untrained eye, but for the coast guard they know where to
                    look and how to interrogate. How wild would it be to smuggle thing via camel
                    back, and to have to come up with elaborate schemes to carry hidden Hashish past
                    authorities, these guys were good.

                I noticed a really cool mention of Hashish came up on April 28th 1905 that was a
                    fight about a previous edition’s column on Hashish being taken out of the
                    market, and being condemned illegal. Someone says it is a large contradiction to
                    say that it is off the market since they know sure and well it has never been so
                    easily obtained and never been as cheap as it was at that time. They go on
                    further to say that the coast guard will not impose as much as they would on it,
                    as a lot of them were being paid “prize” money to turn a blind eye or they take
                    it and sell it. It says that unless a large penalty is posted on Hashish it will
                    remain a movable commodity, that switches hands between those who seize it and
                    those who smuggle it. Something I have also never seen is marijuana referred to
                    as a “noxious herb” and I thought that was hilarious. It is interesting to read
                    this fight against a column because it is going directly against what the
                    government claims and is truly being a sort of a whistle blower to the whole
                    operation of hashish smuggling and the cooperation of authorities in helping
                    them or helping themselves.

                The next mention of Hashish comes on May 24th 1905 when there comes a column on a
                    convention between Egypt and Greece discussing hashish cultivation. The column
                    states that Egypt has given Greece a stern order to completely prohibit the
                    cultivation of hashish. Greece though cannot complete the requests because it
                    simply is not right or possible. It is not right because it is a chief resource
                    to the people that live on the central plateau near Peloponnesus, so if they
                    were to ban the cultivation of this cash crop, it would effectively take the
                    poor farmers and going to send them into a deeper poverty and take away money
                    from the Greek government. The Egyptians end the first convention with a null
                    and void and nothing really happens but the proposition for a second has been
                    announced. The Egyptian Government denounces Greece and has it in their highest
                    priority to end the importation of Greek hashish into Egypt. They also make it
                    paramount to have the resources to strengthen their police force.

                The month of July came with 3 arrests in the smuggling of hashish into Egypt. The
                    first was a very large one that came by a whistleblower who gave the police an
                    idea of the possibility of smugglers hiding out on an island off the coast where
                    they were importing the hashish and then waiting to carry it across the water to
                    land to be sold. The next arrest was a Greek native that had hashish bricks
                    wrapped around his legs trying to pass through the border. The following day the
                    coast guard seized 200 kilos off of a ship that came to port and was searched.
                    July was a big month for hashish and almost seems like it was the peak of
                    smuggling for the year.

                My next occurrence comes on August 7th where 46 kilos were seized in the Esbekiah
                    quarter. This time there is no hashish mention for more than a month until the
                    same smuggler was arrested trying to come through customs with 7 kilos of
                    hashish in his bag. Persistence is key in smuggling, but stupidity clearly
                    trumped it here. And then an even larger break in time of hashish smuggling
                    comes when there isn’t a seizure for over 3 months until December 13th when the
                    coast guard gets the largest seizure of the year and finds 763 kilos on a ship
                    on the west coast of Egypt. This is by far the largest seizure of the year and
                    is a sign that smugglers stopped with little amount and clearly wanted to make
                    one big move into Egypt at once.

                Greed got them here and they lost it all, and most likely their freedom.
                    Smuggling was very rampant in Egypt and the entire Mediterranean at this time in
                    history and with hashish being incredibly profitable it was one of the most
                    smuggled items of the year. The smugglers stopped at nothing to try and get
                    their product to Egypt and it was very interesting to see how some try and
                    succeed, some try and don’t succeed and some never stop trying. But the most
                    interesting part for me is how there was a 3-month lull of no seizures until the
                    biggest one of the year took place, clearly they were waiting and it didn’t pay
                    off.
