---
layout: page
title: <Sports in the 1905 Egyptian Gazette>
author: Brandon Barrett
---
<p>For my project I have decided to look into the sports that took place in 1905.
  So far in my week of newspaper articles I have only read about rugby football
being played in London between Wales and Scotland, but I am sure that there is
more going on than just that throughout the entire year of 1905.  In the article
about the game, all that they included was the date of the game, who played, the
location, and the score.  I would like to figure out all of the sports that they
played, where they played them, how they organized them, how big the fan base
for these sports were, and how competitive the games between teams were.  The
answers to these questions can give us a vast insight into what their society was
like.  The best part is that the answers to all of these questions can be found within
the text of this newspaper. You may be wondering how finding out information
about sports will give us any insight into what it was like back then.  Well, for
starters it will show us how the world functioned, what people care about, how
they spend their free time, where popular places to live were, and how influential
sports were to the people back then.  <p>
<p>For example, our society today is very sports
oriented. There are a very large amount of die hard fans for collegiate and
professional sports programs.  People who dress up like their team’s mascot and
are proud to walk around like that.  The players on these big football, basketball,
soccer, hockey, and baseball teams are praised and treated like gods, getting paid
millions and millions of dollars to perform out on the field and do what they love.
People are very passionate about their teams and will pay lots of money to see
them succeed.  Besides all of the money and pride that goes along with sports
today, a lot of small talk and conversation starters are about the games that are
being played on television that day.  Some long term friendships are made off of a
simple “Hey, did you see the dolphins game last night? They played better than
ever.”  Before you know it the two are keeping in constant contact with each other
about football, then eventually it leads to a deeper friendship that they never say
coming.  If I could find out what sports meant to these people back in 1905, we
could figure out additional information about what it was like to live back then.
The information found could also be used to find out how much income people
made off of sports.  It will be interesting to see if sports and large amount of
money went hand in hand back then like they do now.  The other questions such
as where they played, and how competitive the games were are also very
important.  If we find out where most of the games take place, or where they hold
the championship games for every sport, then we could possibly find out what the
sports capital of 1905 was.  The sports capital would probably have a higher
population, which means that more money would be flowing through that town,
therefore it would probably be one of the more affluent places to live.Do you now see how much information we
can squeeze about these basic questions involving sports?  We can take this
information, along with all of the other information from my classmates, and use
it to help us get a better grasp on their society.  Eventually we will have a much
greater understanding of Alexandria in 1905, which is our overall goal in this
class.  <p>
<p>In order to find out this information, I gathered all of the data that students
in this class have created, and searched all of the xml files for keywords like
"football", "sport", "rugby", and "score".  These key words led me to passages
talking about a variety of different sports and events.
After going through multiple pages of text, I have found a significant list of
sports that were played or observed back in 1905.  We have no way of knowing
for sure that these are the only sport that went on and that were cared for back
then.  These are only the sports that were listed and talked about in the 1905
edition of the Egyptian Gazette.  The list includes, but is not limited to, rugby,
football, soccer, racing, hunting, shooting, cricket, running, rowing, swimming,
tennis, golf, and horse races.  From what I can tell, the most popular sports are
football, soccer, and various types of races.  <p>
<p>The writer of the newspaper usually posts an article that includes the time of
kick off, location of the game, teams competing, and projected quality of the
game, based on their past games played that season and which of their players is
injured that week, a couple of days before the game is played.  Another event they
host that was written about in the newspapers is football tournaments.  I have read
about a multitude of tournaments between teams.  They also write about the game
after it has been played.  They give a very in depth description of several aspects
of the game.  For example, I have seen them include the conditions of the field
that day, which includes what the weather was like, what the ground they were
playing on was made out of, and other little things like that.  Also they include the
number of spectators that attended the game, which is roughly 150 at most of their
more important sports, who won the coin toss, who scored the goals, and even
who the referee of the game that day was.  The location of these games varied
from Cairo, to London, to Port Said, to Boulac, and more.  The Football Cup
Finals were hosted in London, which makes me believe that London was one of
the premier places to live in 1905.  As for the competitiveness of these games, it
was back then just how it is now.  Some games would be a blowout where from
the beginning you knew who would take home the trophy, while others you know
are going to be very evenly matched and competitive. While going through all of
this information, I read a couple cases about football teams getting plays put on
just for them in theaters, which is not the same as being praised everywhere you
go, but it is still considered a special treatment that normal citizens do not receive
<p>
<p>One aspect of their sporting world that I was quite surprised by was the
amount of teams made up by random groups of people.  They had a Military
team, Boulac railway institute team, Port Said team, E.T.C Suez team, Wales
team, Scotland team, A.S.C team, Railway men team, and they even had teams
made up of just natives to practice against.  In our sports world today most of the
teams that play each other are categorized by schools, cities, states, or even
countries in some cases, and these teams seem like there is no level of
organization of who gets to create a team and who plays who.  Teams like Wales,
Scotland, and Port Said sound normal to me and then I see teams like the Railway
men, Boulac Railway institute, and then the team made up of natives to play a
team for their season opener.  This also makes it very hard to see who the big
rivalries are between.  For examples, in 2016 we know that Florida State,
University of Florida, and University of Miami are all going to be rivals because
they are all very talented and located in the same state.  Another part of 1905 that
surprised me was the Helouan Sporting Club hosting Horse racing tournaments.  I
do not know why this surprised me, due to the combination of the large amount of
horses used back then and strong love most males have for gambling.  I just did
not see Horse races being a very popular thing to go watch, because you see
horses all around you every day.<p>
<p>Over the course of this project I faced many difficulties.  Some of them I still
have not fully figured out, which may be somewhat problematic.  For example,
they talk about the sport football a lot in this newspaper.  As you probably know,
football has two different meanings.  They could either be talking about American
football, which is what the NFL and college football are, or they could be talking
about football, meaning soccer.  At some points in the text it is obvious that they
are describing a soccer match, but at others it is impossible to tell.  American
Football was invented back way back in 1869 and soccer was created way before
that, then there is also rugby which is like a hybrid of the two that was made in
1823.  I am assuming that most, if not all of the time they are referring to soccer
or rugby whenever they say football, but I do not know for sure.<p>
<p>In conclusion, from this research I have learned that their most popular sport
was football, also known as soccer by many.  There was a good amount of
competition at these games, and there was also a good sized crowd of people
attending them.  The players back then were not treated as godly as the players
nowadays are treated, but they still received benefits that others did not.  From the
looks of it, their sporting capital of 1905 was London.  One thing that has not
been I have not yet fully understood is how they organize their seasons.  Either
way, this information presented shows me that the sports in 1905 in these areas
were popular, and viewed by many, but did not hold the same precedence that
sports today hold.<p>
[Serial Question Pic](Serial Question Pic.png)
